Anthony, welcome back to Talk Python To Me again.
Again and again.
- Hey, Mike.
- So awesome to have you back.
Always good.
- Yeah, yeah, great to be here, hey.
- Good to catch up, good to have you on the show.
I know we've got a really interesting topic
to talk about, performance, load testing,
how do you know if your website or your API is gonna work
when you ship it to the world.
In a real world way, not just how many requests per second
can it take, but real use case, as I know.
You're gonna tell us all about,
so that's gonna be awesome.
Before we do, just quick introduction to who you are
and maybe for most 98% of the world who knows you,
what have you been up to?
- Yeah, so I am the Python Advocacy Lead at Microsoft.
I do a bunch of open source work,
maintain some projects and stuff like that.
Wrote a book on Python,
the Python compiler called CPython Internals.
But these days, I'm mostly known as the person
that created VS Code Pets.
And that's, which was a bit of fun,
but it's become the most popular piece of software
I've ever written, so that's been interesting.
It's now got over a million active users.
- Careful what you create,
you might get known for it.
- Yeah, I know.
Yeah, it's interesting when you go to conferences
and stuff now and I'm like,
oh, I work on this project and this project,
and then you'd mention the pets thing
and they're like, oh, you're the pets person.
Oh, you're the developer of the--
- You spent a year writing a deep book
on the internals of CPython and its runtime.
I don't know who you are,
but this pets thing is killer, man.
- Yeah, there's a cat that runs around in VS Code,
so that's cool.
- Can it be a dog as well?
What kind of pets can we have?
- Oh, there's everything.
Yeah, it can be a dog.
There's chickens and turtles and snakes
and yeah, everything you can think of.
It's a pretty active repository as well.
We get a lot of feature requests for new shades of fur
and new pets and new behaviors and stuff like that.
- Yeah, that's incredible.
- Yeah, if you haven't checked it out,
then check out the VS Code Pets extension for VS Code.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
I installed it for a while.
I had to uninstall it.
It was too much.
- Yeah, I think if you're one of those people
that likes having distractions, then it's helpful.
If you find it hard to have a little thing running around
whilst you're trying to code, then it might be a bit much.
- It's a little bit like power mode.
- Oh yeah.
- Are you familiar with the power mode?
- I use the one in JetBrains.
Yeah, I used the power mode for JetBrains
when that was around.
It was pretty cool.
- Yeah, if you want maximum distraction for your work.
- Yeah, it reminds me of Unreal Tournament,
the sort of power modes for that.
- That's right, that's awesome.
All right, well, let's start off with some stories.
So I think everyone has a sense of like,
why do you want your website or your API
or your microservice thing of API and website,
however you combine these things,
to work well and understand.
But it's always fun to share some stories.
- Yeah, so we wanna talk about load testing.
And I think a fun thing to do with load testing
is to reflect on times where people haven't done it
the right way and it's caused a really public,
like a disaster.
But the analogy that I use is the halftime problem,
which I'm English, and so this is mostly a soccer thing.
But we've got really big soccer games
and it would be the same, I guess, with the Super Bowl.
- Yeah, I was just thinking American Super Bowl,
football Super Bowl.
- Yeah, but the difference is that in soccer,
at 45 minutes, you've got a 15 minute break.
- Yes.
- And in the Super Bowl, every 15 minutes,
you've got a 15 minute break.
- Well, and it's loaded with commercials.
So you've got like every five minutes,
there's like, oh, here's two more commercial breaks.
Where soccer is a flowing game,
there's like no break until halftime, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
- That's the difference, I think.
- So what happens with a big game,
so if it's like a FA Cup final,
or like a Champions League final or something,
then you basically have 100 million people
all stop watching the TV at the same time for 15 minutes,
go to the kitchen, turn on the kettle,
make a cup of tea, go to the bathroom.
And so the electricity providers
actually have to plan for this
because a kettle uses like a couple of kilowatts of energy.
- Especially in the UK where it's 240.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah.
- And all of a sudden, you've got like tens of millions
of people all switching on their two kilowatt kettles
at the same time.
So the electricity providers basically have to plan
around the soccer games
so that they get this massive spike in load in their grid.
So they actually do look at the sports schedules
to basically plan around this,
especially if it's something like a World Cup
or something like that.
And this is kind of like a load testing thing
where you kind of...
(audio cuts out)
On the system is gonna be...
And is it a spike in traffic or is it like distributed?
And I've seen where it's gone a bit wrong.
So here in Australia, we had a census
maybe eight years ago.
And normally it's a paper census.
You fill in the form, say who you are, what you do.
But this time they wanted to do it online as well.
And they really encouraged people to use the online version.
And they set up a system, set up the website
and said, "Okay, everyone can fill in the census."
There's only 20 something million people in Australia.
It's not a very big population.
But on the last night before the census was due, it crashed
because everybody logged on at the last minute
and tried to fill it in.
And they hadn't tested it properly
and it just wasn't ready for the load.
And in the postmortem, they said,
"Oh, we did the load testing and we tested it
and it seemed fine, but we expected everybody
to fill in the census over the six months
they had to do it."
We didn't think that people would leave it
to the last minute, which is more like,
well, what did you expect to happen?
This is just human nature that you're gonna put it off
until the last possible moment.
- Yeah, I could only see two spikes,
a small spike at the beginning and a huge spike at the end
and like nothing in the middle.
- Yeah, exactly.
So they had to kind of delay the deadline
and then provision new infrastructure and stuff like that.
So yeah, it was interesting, but it kind of highlighted
how you need to think about load testing.
- Yeah, that's nuts.
And I guess the mode before, the style before
was kind of a distributed queuing system
using paper envelopes where the queuing
literally was physical and then it would be processed
at the rate at which the system can handle it, right?
Which, however fast you can get them in based on paper,
but then you try to turn it into an interactive system
and oh no.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- I have another example to share.
Like we've seen websites that fall down like this,
it fell down.
And when something has to be done,
I think it's probably really tricky to communicate.
Let's say 10 million people tried to fill it out that day
and it crashed on them.
Well, how do they know that the deadline's extended
and how do they come back, right?
It creates this cascading chain
of really challenging problems all of a sudden
to deal with it.
We had the healthcare, Obamacare stuff in the US
where as soon as that thing opened, it just completely died
and for weeks people couldn't get insurance, which was bad.
But that's not the story I wanna share.
I wanna share a different one.
There was this app, this person who was frustrated about,
they're an artist, like a photographer, I believe.
And they're frustrated about LLMs and diffusion models
taking everyone's art and generating new art from it
and kind of, I guess it's up to people's opinion
whether or not it counts as stealing or copyright theft
or it's fair use or whatever.
But this person wasn't a fan of that.
So they came up with a web app based on serverless
that would look at stuff and say, this is real art,
this is AI generated art.
And it's not exactly the same,
but they ended up with a $96,000 Vercel bill
because they didn't really take into account
how much it's going to cost per request
to handle this on their serverless.
It was like 20 cents a user and everyone's like,
you know, this is right at the height of the LLM boom
and all the AI art boom and stuff
and people just swarmed to it.
So that's a different kind of problem, right?
- Yeah, that's a cost issue.
Yeah, there are definitely other ones to keep in mind.
And we mentioned like the census and the Obamacare thing
and you might be listening and thinking,
well, you know, my website is not gonna get,
you know, 15 million people logging in
all at the same time.
So like, is this really an issue that I need to handle?
I like a few months ago, I was doing a load test
of an AI app, so like a chat app
and designed a load test and ran it with 10 users
and it had issues.
So like, this doesn't need to be
a tens of millions of users problem.
And the issue that it uncovered was like,
oh, there's a rate limit on the number of tokens
you can send to the LLM and by default,
it's a really small number.
And if you have 10 people asking questions simultaneously,
then that gets exhausted really quickly
and it just throttles you.
And then like the app just says, oh, rate limit error.
And you just wouldn't have noticed
'cause if you're a single user clicking around,
typing in, you know, questions
or even if you've written some fancy,
like UI testing or something, you're like,
oh, we've tested it and it works great.
But you know, you run 10 people using it at the same time
and that's where you start to notice problems.
- Yeah.
I've more than once considered putting
some kind of LLM AI augment, you know,
rag sort of thing in front of Talk Python
because God, at this point,
eight, nine years of full transcripts,
human corrected with all sorts of,
you know, pretty highly accurate.
So that would be awesome to have people
have conversations about it, but I don't know,
just the workload.
I can see so many people coming to you and go,
that's neat, I'm gonna ask it about my homework.
It has nothing to do with it.
Just using it as like a free AI to just,
instead of bothering to download something
or use ChatGPT, I'll just use yours.
And I'm like, eh, probably not worthwhile, all the trouble.
- Yeah, you can set them up so that
they only answer questions about your own stuff.
They don't act as a fancy front end for ChatGPT.
- Yeah.
- We've got plenty of demos that are like that,
but you give it your own internal documents
and it only answers questions about those
and you can set it up so that if it doesn't,
if it can't figure out a reliable answer, it tells you.
It says, I can't, rather than just making something up.
- Yeah, that's really nice.
Yeah, I forgot how closely you guys work with open AI
and all that, right?
- Yeah. - Yeah, yeah.
- I mean, the compute in Azure to run
and train all that stuff is, it's out of control.
- Yeah, the GPUs alone are insane.
- Yeah, it's, I talked to Mark Russinovich,
bit of a diversion, but about some of the hardware
and some of the data center stuff.
And it's like, we're gonna create distributed GPUs
that connect back over fiber to the actual hardware
so you can scale your GPUs and CPUs independently.
There's just all kinds of crazy, interesting stuff there.
But that's a side, bit of a side note, bit of a side note.
All right, so let's talk about,
basically, what do you wanna do to design a load test?
Like, it's more than just, let me write a loop
and see how many requests I can make,
while true, use requests and call this
or call this endpoint or something, right?
- Yeah, yeah, so there's, I guess,
what I normally highlight with load testing
is that the wrong way to start
is to try and work at how many requests per second
your server can handle.
Like, that's interesting for throughput,
but it's not a good measure of real user traffic.
And the main reason is that every user is unique.
They do different things, they follow different paths,
they put in different data.
And also, when you're running a benchmark,
then it's not waiting between requests,
it's just trying to hammer as much as it can.
So real users pause and read and click and wait,
and there's normally latency.
I can see your mouse moving, Mike, but I can't hear you.
- Sorry, so they don't request the same page
over and over and over, right?
They request a blend of pages.
Either they go to the homepage, then they do a search,
and they explore what they find in the search,
and they go back and do another search,
and then they go to checkout or whatever, right?
And as you're pointing out,
they don't just hold down Control or Command + R
and just flicker the screen as hard as they can.
They're reading and they're interacting.
And so what you're saying is,
if you really wanna say how many actual users,
not just kind of a throughput number,
but how many people using the app do you possibly expect
it could keep working,
you gotta factor all these things in, right?
- Yeah, so you've got to factor in the randomness
of where they go, what they type in,
the waits between each click or each API request.
And then something else that's really important
is that most modern applications,
it's not just the initial HTTP request,
it's the 95 additional requests to all the scripts
and the resources and the AJAX calls
and everything like that.
So if it's a browser-based application,
then typically, it's not just the initial request,
it's everything that happens after it.
And I've definitely seen times
where people have done a load test and said,
"Oh yeah, the website runs great."
And then in their app, they had like a JavaScript poller
that would like refresh the data or something every minute.
And then they didn't test that.
And then you get thousands of users
who leave the tab in their browser,
and it's just polling in the background.
So you've basically got this continuous stream of traffic
to a special API that does like polling.
And they hadn't load tested that,
and that produced a huge spike in load
and that caused issues.
- It's like 75% of the workload is the polling.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- What's your browser tab story?
Are you a person that just has tons and tons of tabs open?
- I don't know.
I try and clean them up as much as possible
and have like a couple open maybe.
Unless I'm researching something,
and then when I'm finished, I just do close all tabs
and then start again.
- Yeah, that's me as well.
I think there's a good number of people
that just have like 50 tabs open, they just leave them.
And think about what that does for your website
if you've got some kind of timer-based deal, right?
You gotta consider those people that have just left it.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, so you gotta take those things into account,
I suppose, yeah.
- Yeah.
- You did mention the CSS and the,
talked about the AJAX,
but I think also things like CSS, images,
JavaScript files, not JavaScript execution,
but just getting the files, right?
Some of these frameworks are a couple hundred megs.
Like if you're not somehow distributing that through a CDN,
that could be worth considering as well, I think.
- Yeah, it is, definitely.
And so in Python, for example, you've got,
in Django, there's an extension called White Noise.
So in Django, you've got static content.
There is a really easy extension you can install,
'cause normally you have to kind of configure static
and say, okay, my static files are here,
and then you have to set up Nginx
or whichever web server you're doing
to serve that static content directly.
So as a bit of a workaround,
people often install this White Noise extension
that basically uses Python as their static server.
So like every time you request a CSS or whatever,
Python actually is the thing that reads it from disks
and serves it back, which is great for development,
but you should never use that in production
because Python is not a very good CDN.
So yeah, that's kind of, with load testing,
you would just test the endpoint and say,
oh yeah, it works great,
but then you actually run it in a browser.
And if you're using something like White Noise,
it's actually creating 10 times, 20 times more load
than you expected because it's pulling in all this CSS
and JavaScript and images and stuff like that.
- Yeah, it can be out of control.
I ran into an issue with my website where,
I don't know, I got tired of being too careful
with font awesome fonts and I had missed one.
Like, I'll just put the whole thing,
I'll just put the whole CSS file in.
I'm sure it'll be fine.
It wasn't fine.
Like the web app is running at like 10% CBO usage
and Nginx trying to serve up all the JavaScript is at like 80.
I'm like, what is it doing?
Like, oh, it was serving up a megabyte sized font stuff,
every request, this is not good.
- Yeah.
So yeah, in terms of projects that I've worked on
in the past, I've worked on load testing some like big
campaigns and stuff like that,
particularly around sports events, awesome television.
Back when people used to watch live television
instead of streaming at all,
they'd have like a murder mystery or something
on a big soap opera.
And so I'd like load test the application
so that when everyone wants to find out who murdered
the Vickers wife or whatever,
then they'd all kind of click on the website
at the same time and just trying to load test it.
So some of the things I'd seen were trying to make sure
you simulate browser load correctly,
trying to distribute traffic in a realistic way,
and then spikes in traffic
are basically a different problem.
So the thing we talked about, like the halftime problem
where you've got everybody turning on the kettle
at the same time, that's a special type of load test.
- It's a predictable spike as opposed to just
an out of the blue spike, right?
- Yeah, that one is predictable, which is really nice.
And then you get things like seasonal traffic.
So for a lot of e-commerce applications and stuff like that,
you would expect in the lead up to Christmas
or in the Black Friday sale in the US, for example,
like Cyber Monday, you'd expect like a spike in traffic
for those, but it would be distributed over a day or two.
So you want to be able to like properly assess those.
- Yeah, another spike that I think you and I
can both relate to is the driver of the day, Formula One.
- Oh, right, yeah.
- You've got 10 laps left within the race.
Everyone now go to this thing and press this button.
You have five minutes to do it or something, right?
Like that's gonna be a mega spike.
- Yeah, yeah, there can be some big, big lows in traffic.
So yeah, sudden spikes are really hard to handle
because you get bottlenecks in the network.
You get bottlenecks in the database.
You get bottlenecks in the web server.
So those are kind of a unique type of problem to test for.
If you're looking more at like waves of traffic,
so like, oh, you know, traffic would build up
during the weekday or the type of application I have
actually gets busier at the weekend or in the evenings.
Then those are kind of the ones where you test ramped traffic.
So all these load testing tools have a ramp up time
or ramp configuration where, so in Locust, for example,
you say, how many concurrent users do you want to get to?
So let's say that's like a thousand or something.
And then how much do you want to ramp up?
And you generally should always use a ramp
because if you've got a thousand users,
unless you've put them all in a room and said,
okay, everybody click on the button at the same time,
like that's not gonna happen.
People log in gradually over a period of time.
And if you don't use ramping and load testing tools,
you actually create, you kind of end up simulating stuff
that's not realistic.
So you'd see like a massive spike in response times
as the application gets backed up.
But if it's not really realistic
that you'd get those types of spikes,
then don't simulate it that way.
- Yeah, there's, we're gonna talk about it a little bit,
but there's a lot of different layers of caching as well.
And if the app has just come to life,
many of those layers of caching are not set up
and like warmed up.
So that's a big deal.
And it could be as simple as the web app parsing,
the Jinja or Chameleon or Django template, right?
That's the very first time that can be slow,
but then if you set it up right in production,
it will not parse at the second, third and fourth request.
- Yeah, exactly.
And so if we talk about Locust as an example,
you've got on the screen,
I think it's my favorite load testing.
- Locust is so good.
- Yeah, it's really flexible
and you define the user flows in Python code.
So you write a class that represents a user
and then you program in the steps that they would take.
So like, oh, they start on the homepage,
then they click on this page,
then they click on this page.
And then you can program in like the pauses
and the randomness and stuff like that.
And actually set up different types of personas
or different types of users.
I think this is a great way of designing a load test
because you're thinking about what would the user do
rather than like, what's the throughput.
So if you set up a Locust test where,
they start off at a point in your site,
if your site has a login,
how many of your users would log in?
Because I think it's important to start off,
if this is a new application, it's really hard to know.
So you're gonna have to come up with an educated guess
or test like a range of parameters.
If this isn't a website that you've had running for,
a year or two, and you've got like a history of traffic,
then you can look at it and say, okay,
how many people on the homepage are logged in?
Because there's a big difference.
Because when you talk about caching
and like CDNs and stuff like that,
you can cache the rendered template,
but you generally wouldn't cache the whole rendered template
if they're logged in.
Because at the top, it might say, hello, Anthony,
and you wouldn't wanna cache that
so that when Mike clicks on the website,
it says, hello, Anthony.
He's like, who the hell's that?
- That would be very disturbing, wouldn't it?
(laughing)
- So there's a balance between caching
and serving up dynamic content.
And then also if you're presenting lists of products
or someone's got a shopping cart or something like that,
obviously that's unique to them.
So you're kind of trying to simulate this
as best as possible.
Otherwise, you just create these really optimistic load tests
where you're like, oh, we tested the homepage
and it can handle 50,000 users.
But in practice, if 1,000 of those log in,
then the whole thing falls apart
because all of a sudden you're not using
the cached version of the homepage.
- Right.
You know, another example that you brought up is,
let's just take Talk Python, right?
It's got, coming up on 500 episodes.
If you test, and suppose I put really aggressive caching,
like on the database results that come back
from a single episode for the page,
and then just render that out of memory, basically,
at least just out of the objects that are in memory.
If you do your test to just hit the one,
like let's just randomly pick episode 300,
hit that one a bunch of times.
But in reality, people are hitting all four or 500
and it's not all cached the same,
or maybe there's so much memory that each one has to hold
that it like, putting all 500 in memory
and the cache runs it out of RAM on the server,
all sorts of stuff that happens
as you get this kind of dynamic mix, right?
- Yeah, so you want to introduce randomness.
So for example, on the login, if you've got a login flow,
or if you're clicking on a particular product,
then try not to hard code, you know,
which one it is, if you've got caching.
You might not even see the caching,
or they're like databases do a lot of caching.
So like, if you're always pulling the same thing
from the database, the database server
is probably gonna cache that.
So you know, it's gonna be a lot faster.
So if you can randomize the, like the inputs
or the pages that you click on,
or the flows that people take, then that's great.
Locust actually has like an extra,
when you define a task, which is a decorator on a function,
you can have like, how often this happens.
So you can have some tasks which happen
more sort of frequently than others.
So you can say, okay, you know, five times more people
go to the homepage, and then, you know,
every so often somebody does a search.
But then when you do the search,
when you wanna load test the search,
you know, you wanna randomize that a bit more
than just always searching for the same thing.
- Right, right, right, right.
Yeah, and just, so for people who haven't seen Locust,
you create a class, you give it a couple of functions,
and then, for example, to test the homepage,
you just literally put the task decorator on the function.
You say self.client.get/self.client.get,
maybe some additional assets or not.
And then you can even hard code into the class
what the domain is, or local host, or support, or whatever.
And that's it.
And you just, you can assign a weight to these tasks,
like homepage five times more likely than about.
So just put task of five instead of task by itself, right?
It's incredible.
- Yeah, yeah, it's really, really helpful.
And then there's a library.
There's a couple of things you need to keep in mind as well.
Like if the user logs in,
and then it probably creates some sort of session,
whether that's like a cookie, or a token,
or something like that.
So you need to store that somewhere in the class
so that subsequent requests use the same login session.
And then also, you know, frameworks like Django and Flask
have got cross-site request forgery, like protection.
So they generate these CSRF tokens in the forms as well.
So there's normally like a bit involved
in getting the cookie or the session ID,
getting the CSRF value.
And then like, say if you're submitting forms,
or you're like doing a search or something,
you need to code a bit in Locust
to work around the security controls.
- Right, for example, you might do a request to the page
that has the form, and then pull back the CRF token
from a cookie, and then use that
as part of the form submission data.
Otherwise it might just say invalid.
You know, another one that would be really tricky
would be like turnstile or recaptcha.
You're probably basically not getting that.
Not worth it.
- Yeah, you're stuck there.
You've got to fill in those ones.
- Just maybe turn it off real quick for your test
and then turn it back on.
I don't know, I mean, you could do it,
turn it off in development or something like that, right?
- Yeah.
- So when I look at this, this Locust stuff,
I see behind the scenes something like requests or HTTPX
where all it does is pull back the string of the HTML,
or maybe even it just gets the head
and actually throws away the content,
I bet it streams it back.
But what I don't imagine it does
is it doesn't parse the HTML,
realize that it's a view front end,
execute the JavaScript that then has three API calls
to more stuff on the back on the server, right?
It doesn't, if it's a rich front end app,
it probably doesn't treat it the same
if we write it just like this, right?
- Yeah, so the other one I wanted to highlight
is it's an extension to Locust,
so you can connect it with Playwright.
It does HTML parsing.
That's more like looking at the HTML
to see if like a particular,
you know, like a beautiful soup or responses
was the framework for this.
- Right, make sure timeout does not appear in the text
or something like that.
- Yeah, make sure the page doesn't have error
in big letters.
So like that's one thing you can do
is checking that the content of the page
actually contains the right thing.
And then Playwright is a UI,
like a web testing tool.
Playwright works really well with pytest.
So I recommend using Playwright anyway
if you're running a web application
because you can write pytest tests in Playwright.
Even better is if you wanna get started with Playwright,
it has a code generator.
So when you pip install it,
you can run it in the code gen mode.
It pops up a browser,
and then you just go on your website
and just click around
and then do what you would do normally,
type in, you know, fill in the forms,
click on the buttons.
And then whilst you're doing that,
in another tab, it actually generates
all the Python code for the pytests.
So it basically generates the pytest test code
in a separate window automatically
as you're clicking around in the browser.
So like in terms of writing UI tests,
it's quite difficult
'cause often you have to be like,
okay, how do I find the button?
How do I click on the right button?
How do I find the form?
Especially with JavaScript 'cause it's not,
you know, often things don't have a specific idea
or you've got to figure out what selectors to use
and stuff like that.
So this makes it a lot easier
because you can use the code gen.
So that's a browser test.
So with a load test normally in Locust,
you're just making HTTP requests,
but you're not actually rendering the page
or running the AJAX or the JavaScript code.
Whereas with Playwright,
when you run Playwright,
it's actually spinning up a browser
and then driving the browser from Python.
So you can plug Locust and Playwright together.
And there's a Playwright extension for Locust.
So you can say, okay, each load test user,
I actually want that to be a browser.
And so when you say,
I want to test 100 concurrent users,
it actually spins up 100 browsers.
(laughing)
In a very, well, Playwright's actually really interesting
how it works, but like there's a headless mode
for browsers these days.
So it doesn't actually run 100 windows.
Like you can't see them.
- I can't use my computer while this is running.
It's just overwhelmed by.
- But yeah, I don't recommend running 10,000 concurrent
on a single laptop because it's gonna run pretty slowly.
- It's gonna have a bad time, yeah.
But that is really important to actually,
so that will test it,
all the stuff that we've been talking about.
It'll test if there's polling, it'll test that.
It'll pull, if the CSS is not delivered over a CDN,
it's gonna go get that potentially white noise
or wherever it's coming from.
Right, it's gonna do all the things.
- Yeah.
Yeah, the challenge with it is that,
like you mentioned, running a browser,
even if it's just a tab, uses a lot of resources.
Whereas making a HTTP request using a request or something,
it doesn't really need anything.
So you can quite happily in Locust,
make a hundred thousand requests
and your local machine that you're testing on will be fine.
So yeah, you can actually get low testing as a service.
And the reason you'd probably wanna use that
is if you're testing a scenario
where your local dev environment
or your test environment just isn't big enough,
where you need to distribute it,
then you need more horsepower basically
to go and run all the requests,
especially for something like Playwright
or where you need a lot of resources for the browser.
- Yeah, yeah, the little screenshot they have for Locust
says 21,400 users are currently accessing the website.
It's like, that's a lot of browser instances.
- That's a lot of browser instances.
Yeah, that looks like an API test,
which would be a lot easier to do.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, APIs are easy.
- Yeah, so there's a service called Azure Load Testing.
There is other options as well.
I'm sure AWS has one and Google probably has one as well.
Azure Load Testing I know,
and we are launching Locust support for that.
At the moment it supports Jmeter tests,
but yeah, we're gonna be launching Locust support for that.
I think by the time this episode comes out,
it will probably be in public preview.
So I've been using that and testing that.
And the reason you would use it is, like I said,
if you can run the Locust test locally on your machine
and it runs great and brilliant,
but you can ask us to spin up 50, 100
or even more instances running in parallel.
And so if you want to do a really large scale test,
then you can just basically get that
from a cloud service provider like Azure.
- Yeah, yeah, awesome.
I didn't realize you guys were bringing that online.
That's cool.
- Yeah, nobody knows about this.
- Can you do distributed,
I think you can do some distributed stuff
with Locust even, can't you?
Just, yeah.
- Yeah, you can.
- But you gotta have your own infrastructure, right?
- Yeah, and a lot of it uses SSH
and you've gotta, basically it kind of works over the shell.
So yeah, we've got our own distribution
and coordination system and stuff like that.
And then also when you're running the test,
your output, I guess, is what is the response time
of the pages and what does that look like?
And I think what confuses a lot of people
is the first time they use Locust or JMeter
or one of the other tools,
they get all these percentiles back
and they're like, oh, the 90th percentile response time
is this and the 95th is this and the 99th is that
and they're like, okay, well,
if I go back to my high school math,
I think I can remember what percentiles are,
but which one matters?
Because normally there's a massive difference
between the 90th and the 99th percentiles with load testing.
And you might say, oh, well, the 99th is like 10 seconds,
but the 90th is like 300 milliseconds.
So was that a good output or a bad output?
I'm not really sure how to interpret the results.
So yeah, you'll see in the UI for Locust,
it gives you percentiles.
All the other load testing tools are very similar.
It's basically like a distribution of the response times
for those particular pages.
And what you're trying to understand
is what is the expected response time?
So if it's a bell curve,
then what's the center point of that?
Because the 99th is interesting,
but often it's because the cache was warming up
or there was one user that took 10 seconds.
- The cache expired and then it got recreated right then
or something, yeah.
- Yeah, exactly.
So for a 99th percentile, if it's 10 seconds,
you might have one user that took 10 seconds
and 99 users that took a couple of hundred milliseconds.
So it's, do you want to factor for that one user
or do you wanna focus on the other,
on the bulk of the group?
- Yeah, and if you're like my daughter,
you'll just say that the internet's broken.
(both laughing)
- Yeah.
- It could be, or it could be that YouTube is slow
for some odd reason for you for a minute.
Like it's not necessarily the entire internet
that is the fault here.
- Yeah, well, most users,
I think if it took 10 seconds to respond,
would just keep clicking the refresh button.
(both laughing)
- Exactly.
- So just generate more load.
Yeah, you might have to program that into your load test.
If it takes longer than five seconds,
then issue another three requests.
- Yeah, that's a really good point actually.
Let's see, are there any pictures of the reports here?
Let's see.
There we go, maybe.
Yeah.
- Yeah, you got these nice graphs
that shows you response times.
- Yeah.
They're not just graphs, they're live graphs.
You can kind of see it like flowing as it's testing, right?
As it's ramping up or whatever.
- Yeah, definitely.
So what we do with the load testing services
is we've got that graph,
but then you can also say,
I also want to see how many queries a second
were happening on the database.
What was the memory usage of the web applications?
Like how many,
like what was the pod size if you're using Kubernetes,
like stuff like that.
I've got a couple of demos where I've got
like parameter-based load testing,
where when you're setting up a Kubernetes environment,
you're like, oh, I'm not sure how much memory
I should allocate the containers
or like how many of them I should have in a pod.
So you can basically just use something like GitHub actions
to give a matrix and say, okay,
I want to test these configurations.
Let's see what happens with half a gig of RAM per container
or two gigs of RAM per container.
Let's do two, four, eight in a cluster.
And it will run the same load test for every configuration.
And then you can just compare all the graphs and say,
okay, we don't want to over-allocate infrastructure
because people often go a bit nuts.
They're like, oh, how many instances in a cluster
do we need on the front end?
And they allocate like 16.
But then when it's actually running,
15 of them are idle.
So it's kind of just over-provisioning.
So load testing can be a great way
of not just like planning for spikes in traffic
or being able to like cater for it,
but actually the other way round,
which is you run a load test and you realize
you could probably actually do with less infrastructure.
So like things like memory as well,
like memory is expensive when you're buying it
from a service provider.
And, you know, CPUs and stuff like that,
or the number of instances.
And actually, let's see what happens
if we turn some of those things down.
Will that impact the response times?
Can we get away with it basically?
'Cause in a lot of cases,
you can actually spend a lot less money
and get the same performance
or even just a negligible difference.
- Or maybe you identify somewhere
where you could add some level of caching.
- Yeah.
- Then all of a sudden you get,
you can prove you get 10X the load per worker process.
You know, we could have a smaller machine
or smaller cluster or whatever.
- Yeah, exactly.
- So one thing I would like maybe to talk to the folks about
is just how do you interpret these graphs?
So you have like a request per second,
and then you talked about say the 95th percentile
response time and this ramping up.
And usually when you look at these graphs,
it's really obvious like, yeah, we can add more users,
but here is where we start to suffer consequences
if we add any more users than this.
Doesn't always just completely fall over.
It just behaves worse.
- Yeah, so it's kind of a bit like a feedback system
for anyone who studies that.
When you configure a ramp in Locust,
you're saying, okay, how many users per second
do we wanna add?
And you start off with a slow ramp is my suggestion.
So like, you know, every 10 seconds add one user
would like be a really slow way of doing it.
And then what you're looking at is the response times
for each page, or you can get an average of everything.
So if you're starting off with a load test
that just tests one page, you slowly ramp up the users.
Then you're looking at the response time graph.
Often when you run a load test where it starts,
the response times spike up at the beginning
because the service was probably asleep.
The database server was probably asleep.
You know, it needs to like kick a few things
into action to get it responding.
So you often see like a spike at the beginning.
That's fine, don't worry about that.
If as long as it's a short spike and not,
it doesn't go on for hours.
But we know once everything's warmed up,
then you should see a stable graph.
So the response times should stick around the same level,
even as you add more and more users to a point.
So it's basically looking at the two graphs,
which is the response time and the number of users
and trying to understand how many users
does it need to get to before that response time line
starts going up.
And you basically know that's where you've introduced
some sort of bottleneck.
- Something that's reaching its limit, yeah.
- That's where someone, you know,
people are all of a sudden sitting in a queue somewhere.
The hard part is actually figuring out where that queue is.
If you don't have the time, but you've got the money,
you can just throw more infrastructure at it.
But often you can fix some of those queues
by looking at what are we caching and where.
- Right, look at the CPU usage of the various aspects.
What's the database CPU load?
What's the web process?
If the web bit is kind of chill,
but the database is at 100%,
maybe you need better indexes or something.
- Yeah, 'cause often you're looking at the infrastructure
on the back end, and even though the response times
are going up, so there's a bottleneck,
the CPU's maybe still at 60%.
And the memory might only still be at 50%.
So you're like, okay, you know,
more CPUs isn't necessarily the issue,
but things are getting stuck somewhere.
And that might be that, you know, each page,
actually I remember one load test I did
where it was a PHP application using like some framework.
And the performance like was horrible
and we couldn't figure out why.
And we put on some debugging tools
and realized that every single page ran 200 SQL queries.
I guess it's the way they'd written it.
It was like, oh, that'd be why.
'Cause you're looking at the CPU and memory
of the actual web servers, and they're fine.
Like the web servers are just like,
basically just sitting there,
continually waiting for the database server to respond.
So, you know, you look at the resource usage
and you might be thinking, well, why is it getting slower?
But often it's 'cause you're making calls to the database
or a backend API or something.
And it's just sitting there idle, waiting for the responses.
So, you know, I know you've mentioned on the show
a few times, but like the N plus one issues
and stuff like that for ORMs in particular
is where you get those types of scale
where you should not be seeing that many SQL queries.
It's so easy to do because you write the same code,
get the things and then loop over some
and interact with some aspect of them.
And if you don't eagerly do the query at the first part,
each one of those is a separate query.
The more you get back, the worse it is.
- Yeah, exactly.
And I mentioned like an AI app,
like with this LLM rag app that we did a load test on
with like 10 users.
And like the CPU and memory were fine on the front end
'cause it's not really doing anything.
It's just calling the LLM,
but it hit like a token limit like really, really quickly.
And 'cause we were capturing that and tracing it,
then we could see like that's what the bottleneck was,
that it was getting rate limited on the backend.
- Yeah.
So I think one of the challenges that people can run into,
this is really important,
is testing with way less data
than you're gonna have in production.
I've got 10 entries in the database
'cause that's what I bothered to test type in
while I was playing with the app,
but I've got a million in production.
Stuff like that, right?
I've got three products
and there's a million in production.
- Yeah, so, I think I might.
- Now go ahead.
So you actually had some really interesting tools
that you recommended to deal with that.
- Yeah, I'd seen this a few times
where people had done load testing
and they're like, "Oh, on the all users page
"or on the list products page, it runs super fast."
'Cause they've deployed the dev environment
and it's got like no products in the database.
- It doesn't matter if you have indexes
'cause there's only three things, just return them all.
- Yeah, and you don't see things at the end plus one
'cause there's only like a couple of products.
If any at all.
So you often wanna seed the application
with as much fake data as possible.
And the library that I absolutely love for this
is called Mimesis, which is a fake data generator
kind of similar to Faker,
but it's got a lot more support
for like different languages and environments
and stuff like that.
So if you wanted to say,
"Okay, let's create 100,000 users."
And you need to generate names and addresses
and locations and stuff like that,
you can do that using Mimesis really easily.
And also if you want to do like test
like different cultures or locales.
So not just testing like English names,
but testing all sorts of different countries
and stuff like that or different phone numbers.
Then yeah, you can use Mimesis to do that.
- Yeah, it's got all kinds of different things
that get credit cards and phone numbers.
- Yeah, you can say, "I need 100,000 Brazilian phone numbers
and it will just give you them."
(laughing)
And exactly the right format.
- Yeah, so then you save those to your database once
and then you can run your tests
and see if you have your N plus one problem
or your indexes don't fit into memory
or whatever the problem might be, right?
- Yeah, so for Django or for SQLAlchemy,
you can do the like these load and dump commands.
So what I kind of recommend is to keep it fast
is to use Mimesis to generate a seed data file,
even if that's like JSON or something,
and then just do like a bulk load in the test environment
and then you can reset it every time.
So you can basically just do a rollback
and then just reset and do a bulk load.
If using like a document database,
then they've got similar tools for that.
So if using Mongo, then you could just do a bulk load
from like a test command basically.
- Right, just to load it up with some fake data,
do a Mongo dump and then whenever you're ready to reset it,
just do a Mongo restore, dash, dash, drop
and it'll be-- - Yeah, exactly.
And you can reuse those for your integration tests as well.
You know, if you're writing,
if you've got integration tests with Django or Flask,
then often you need a database fixture
and you wanna see that with some information,
then you can just reuse the same data.
- Yeah, you could also do transactions, right?
Like put a transactions that's always rolled back.
So once you load it up, you're not breaking it,
but that's tricky if the code itself calls commit,
I suppose. (laughs)
- Yeah.
- So no, it changed it, darn it.
- Yeah, there was a question in the chat,
how does load testing change
when you have non-deterministic processes,
e.g. LLM queries, which is a really good question.
And I think it's kind of related to this
where you've got a,
you want to introduce like an element of randomness,
but we talked about like a user search page
or if you've got like a chat feature or something,
then you want to kind of vary the question,
especially if you've got any kind of caching.
So that is tricky though,
because at the moment, like the LLM calls,
depending on which model you're using
and how it's set up and stuff like that,
but they can take a second,
up to 10 seconds to get a response.
- Easier, yeah.
- So you need to kind of factor that in,
is like how is your app,
how does your app handle sitting and waiting for 10 seconds
before it gets a response back?
And often you'll find that you'll max out
the number of like threads you've got,
or the number of workers in like gUnicorn
or uvicorn or something like that,
because they're all just sitting there waiting.
- That's a place where async and await
would be pretty awesome.
- Yeah.
- Because you can sort of let the thread go
and just you'll get back to it.
Also, maybe you just need a different architecture.
Maybe it's not just more caching or more hardware.
It's like, so we're gonna put the,
there's a pending request in the database
and we're gonna push that off to somewhere
and then we'll just set up like some kind of JavaScript thing
to check if it's done and then pull down the answer
or something that's not necessarily blocking potentially.
- Yeah, I think in a way it's great for,
like you mentioned, great for that.
Actually, there was an announcement pretty recently
that you can run uvicorn now, like as a production.
- Yeah, directly, yeah.
Without being wrapped to gUnicorn, yeah.
- Yeah. - That's awesome.
- So yeah, for this kind of scenario we just talked about
where you're waiting on backend calls and stuff like that,
use the async version of those libraries.
Like if it's OpenAI, there's an async version
of the OpenAI SDK, use that.
And then at least like uvicorn is gonna just have,
it will quite happily run like hundreds and hundreds
of those requests that are just waiting on backend calls.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So one thing I wanna throw in here,
this is coming from me, not from you,
but I wanna get your thoughts on it.
So I recently set up this thing called Uptime Kuma.
Are you familiar with Uptime Kuma?
- No.
- So this is an open source,
self-hosted uptime monitoring tool.
And just run it in Docker, off it goes.
And one of the things that's nice about this is,
well, over on Talk Python now, if you go to the bottom,
it's got a server status and you can come in here,
you can see the website's behaving well,
the RSS feed is behaving well, the courses size,
but also the mobile API, all these things.
But the reason I think this is, I mean, status,
like is it working or not, it's not really that relevant.
That's like operational thing.
But what's cool about it is if you go and dig into the thing
and you go to the dashboard, like let's say,
it'll even, you could even group them, right?
So like, you know, let's do this, I'll do the API.
So for like the mobile apps API,
or the mobile app for Talk Python courses,
you can actually see over time what it's seen
in response time for like days.
So with your load tests, you're saying,
let me just hammer it and see how it responds to that, right?
And if you point something like this,
or there's many other tools like this,
but this is a nice one, you can just say,
just keep a record and let me go back and look for,
you know, for 24 hours, how has the load looked?
You can see there's some weird spike there,
probably did like a deployment,
like right around then or something.
But in general, you know, 40, 50 milliseconds, 35, 81,
right, it's handling it.
'Cause if the thing was overwhelmed,
then these tests would also suffer the latency
that everyone else is suffering, you know?
And this is like every 30 seconds.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
I do wanna give a shout out to OpenTelemetry.
I hope more people, every year,
more and more people find out about this
and they're like, oh, this solves a lot of my problems.
It's a CNCF project.
So it's a big open source standard.
It basically is a standard for instrumentation,
like an observability.
So it's, you kind of plug these instrumentation libraries
into your app.
And there's ones for FastAPI, Django, Flask,
like the backends, like Mongo, like SQLAlchemy,
stuff like that.
And you basically just install these pip packages
and it will just start to capture all this information
about, oh, there's a request and it had these parameters
and it took this long.
And so in Python, like with a very small amount of code
and a few pip packages,
you can instrument all this stuff in your application.
And then the other thing that OpenTelemetry does
is it will have, it's kind of like a pluggable exporter.
So wherever you want to send all that data to,
you can kind of pick and choose
like which platform you wanna send it to.
And there are some like local ones you can use as well.
We showed this tool for uptime.
There's some Docker containers for that.
So you just spin up a Docker container
and it'll just take all that telemetry data
and give it to you in a GUI.
So you can see like all the traces, how long they took,
what calls it made on the backend,
what queries it was running.
Like OpenTelemetry is a brilliant way of doing that.
And it's not just Python.
Like if you've got some components of your application
that are written in other languages,
like odds are that it is also supported.
So it's kind of like a framework, I guess,
for capturing data.
And when you're doing load tests,
this is how we do like postmortems to figure out,
or even just looking at the stats and seeing like,
where did things go slow?
And I've got some videos and stuff of demos
I've done with this, where I've got like applications,
I've done a load test on them,
and then I can see, oh, there was a spike in load.
Let's go back and look at the data to see what caused that
and which calls was it,
what was the resources, the memory usage,
and often like, was it the database or was it an API call
and why did it take so long?
What were the special parameters?
- What were we waiting on?
Was it the actual web app or was it database?
But like you can retroactively know that, right?
- Yeah, and OpenTelemetry is a great way of doing that.
- Yeah, that's super cool.
That's way more holistic than my just,
give me a graph or response time.
- Yeah, that's still cool.
- It's still cool.
It's 20 minutes to set it up in the Docker cluster.
Awesome, well, let's talk about,
I know we're basically out of time, Anthony.
Let's just talk really quickly about one thing
that I think is a little bit tricky
and maybe just get your thoughts on my Vercel example
of cost is sort of in this space.
And that's serverless.
What are your thoughts on serverless?
Like you have way more control when you have a VM
or you've got a Kubernetes cluster
or whatever it is you're working with, right?
- Yeah, it's kind of a bit, I don't know.
I always kind of see serverless.
It's a really cool idea, but it's more of a commercial
concept than the technical one.
- Yeah, I'm thinking more about just the,
you don't control the warmup.
You don't control the machine.
There's just a lot of stuff that's black box to you.
- I think most of the platforms and most of the providers
have got a range of options.
I speak to Azure Functions,
which is like our serverless Python engine.
You can use that as just pay per request.
But it then has certain optimization
so that it has like a warm startup time.
So if you haven't made any requests
for a certain number of hours,
then the application will fall asleep.
So it's not using resources
and we're not charging you money.
But if you don't want to have that,
if you want the startup time to be super fast,
then you can use a different service level basically
and have like faster startups.
You can have like pre-allocated resources,
which then becomes not serverless,
but it's the same framework, it's the same architecture.
And Lambda's the same, AWS Lambda's the same.
You can kind of set it up in those different options.
Things kind of get tricky when you get into Kubernetes
because you've got real infrastructure on the background.
And when you look at Kubernetes clusters
or Kubernetes as a service or however you're setting it up,
the first question is like,
how many VMs do I need to provision
and how big do they need to be?
So yes, you're kind of building
in like a serverless abstraction on top of it,
but you've got real infrastructure in the background.
And that's actually really hard
because in a lot of cases,
you've just got tons of idle infrastructure.
So I think load testing is a good way of looking at,
like trying to right size what you've got provisioned.
And in many cases, scaling down some pits
and scaling up others.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I don't mess with Kubernetes, it's too much for me.
I don't need all that.
I don't need all that stuff.
I do use Docker though, which is really, really nice.
I know a lot of these tools we talked about
support running in Docker or working with Docker and so on.
All right, well, hopefully people have
some really concrete ideas and tools that they can use
like locust.io, which we're both huge fans of.
Playwright, same deal,
but also some of the philosophy and ideas behind it,
which is super important too.
So much appreciate you coming on the show to share that,
just the chance to catch up.
How about you give us a quick wrap up,
important takeaways for people
who want to go out and test their stuff now?
- Yeah, so I think step one is to look at your application
and understand what your users are likely to do.
So if you want to design a load test, start simple,
maybe even start with Playwright,
because you can just spin up the browser recorder,
click around in the website
and simulate what a user would be doing,
stitch that together with locust and test.
10 users, don't go nuts.
Start off with a small number, a simple test,
and you will uncover things that need optimizing.
I don't think I've ever encountered an application
that just ran really efficiently the first time.
And then just keep working on that.
So yeah, instead,
'cause often you would end up trying to optimize things
that are not gonna get touched
or don't really make a difference when you actually test it.
So yeah, start simple.
I recommend using locust and Playwright if you want,
or you can just write a simple locust test.
And then put the instrumentation in the backend
so that you can see not just the response times,
but you can see as much data as possible
on what's happening and how long it's taking.
And I'll share like a couple of links
of some simple dashboards you can use with OpenTelemetry,
where they will capture that data locally or in the cloud
and show you a trace of every request.
- Yeah, awesome.
And do that with real data.
Don't do it with three entries.
- Yeah.
- It's not gonna mean what you think it means
if you do it with only three entries.
- Yeah.
- Awesome.
All right, well, always great you having the show.
Thanks for being here, Anthony.
Catch you later. - Yes.
Great to be back.
Thanks for watching. - Yeah, bye.